_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
--- 

--- 

I am a Research Analyst at the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, specializing in economic policy analysis and budget program evaluation. Over the past decade, I have worked at the intersection of legislative research and applied economics, contributing to evidence-based fiscal policymaking.

My experience bridging empirical analysis and legislative decision-making has shaped my commitment to pursuing more rigorous research in economics. In 2025, I am advancing this pursuit through ongoing working papers, two of which are introduced in the [Research Section](https://jhkim-econ.github.io/research/).


### Research Interests
- Labor economics with emphasis on structural shifts in industries and demographic change    
- Public finance in relation to market-oriented instruments

### Contact
Address: The National Assembly, Main Bld., 1 Uisadang-daero, Seoul, Republic of Korea 07233  
Email: jh.kim.assembly@gmail.com | na32@assembly.go.kr | sjhnu32@snu.ac.kr

Commit message:

Revise research interests in about.md
Updated research interests to include sustainability and the interplay between government interventions and private mechanisms.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
--- 

--- 

I am a Research Analyst at the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, specializing in economic policy analysis and budget program evaluation. Over the past decade, I have worked at the intersection of legislative research and applied economics, contributing to evidence-based fiscal policymaking.

My experience bridging empirical analysis and legislative decision-making has shaped my commitment to pursuing more rigorous research in economics. In 2025, I am advancing this pursuit through ongoing working papers, two of which are introduced in the [Research Section](https://jhkim-econ.github.io/research/).


### Research Interests
- Labor economics with emphasis on structural shifts in industries and sustainability    
- Public finance on focusing on the interplay between government interventions and private mechanisms

### Contact
Address: The National Assembly, Main Bld., 1 Uisadang-daero, Seoul, Republic of Korea 07233  
Email: jh.kim.assembly@gmail.com | na32@assembly.go.kr | sjhnu32@snu.ac.kr
